so this module shows us a whole
thickness section of the skin we have
the epidermis with the basement membrane
zone then the dermis and then this
yellow bit is a Depot's hypodermis on
this model so let's start off by looking
at the top here here we see the dermal
papillae which as you remember project
up into the epidermis so here we see a
dermal papillae here and these represent
dermal papillae projecting up into the
epidermis which is on top when we look
at the top of the epidermis we see that
there's pores here for the sweat to come
out of the sweat gland ducts and we can
also see here the hairs penetrating
through the epidermis and we can notice
the layers of the epidermis the basal
layer of the epidermis the stratum
basale
the german ative layer just here then
above that the spiky or the thorny layer
the stratum spinosum above that the
stratum granulosa with little grains
then this yellow bit here will be the
stratum lucidum the Lucid or the
translucent layer and then the stratum
corneum the horny layer above here and
finally the cells will be slough off the
surface the layers of the epidermis
going down into the dermis here we see
mr. corpuscles the Meccano receptors
detecting light touch
with their sensory neurons going off
down towards the central nervous system
and here we see the pattern Ian
receptors were their specialized Schwann
cells the detect pressure again with
sensory nerve fibers going off towards
the central nervous system and we don't
see it on this model but we know that
there are three nerve fibers penetrating
through the dermis giving rise to
sensations such as pain heat cold itch
and tickle and we notice that there is a
superficial blood plexus superficial
vascular plexus near the surface of the
dermis so here we see small arterial
vessels small venous vessels and large
capillary networks and we also notice
that there's a deeper plexus of larger
blood vessels in the hypodermis and we
know that these penetrated from below
through the muscle fascia from deeper
muscles beneath also on this model we
see the here we see the cross section of
the eccrine sweat gland the glandular
portion and the duct the sweat rises up
the duct to the surface of the body
where it evaporates extracting the
latent heat of vaporization from the
body and here we see the same thing in a
more three-dimensional type of structure
the glandular portion and the ductile
portion
and here we see the larger apocrine
sweat gland producing sweat which is on
the surface of the body is acted on by
bacteria giving rise to characteristic
smells and actually in Papua anatomy
most of these Ducks don't open directly
onto the surface the vast majority of
them actually open into hair follicles
and the apocrine sweat comes out via the
hair follicle in the majority of cases
here we see the adipocytes of the
hypodermis the fatty layer and here we
see the hair follicles the hair shaft
growing out of the hair follicle and we
notice that there is epidermal tissue
going all the way down into the hair
follicle we notice that there's a
papillae a hair papillae growing
underneath the heck underneath the hair
there so the hair can grow supplying the
hair with oxygen and nutrients for the
active mitosis which is going on in the
german ative layer and we also notice
that there's an arterial and venous
blood supply to the dermal papillae in
this case the hair papillae we notice
the sebaceous gland producing sebum
which is passing directly from the
sebaceous gland into the hair follicle
to a rise up and moisten the surface of
the epidermis and we also see the hair
erector muscles the erector pili here
the hair erector muscles will contract
moving the hair in that direction making
the hair shaft more erect so when that
muscle contracts the hair is moved into
a more erect position
so this just gives us some of the
structures that we've talked about in a
cross-section of the skin in this quite
useful enlarged model
you